---
title: "Automatic geomorphological mapping using ground truth data with coverage sampling and random forest algorithms"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/Geomorphology-mapping-2024
excerpt: 'Marine geomorphological maps are useful to understand seafloor structure for example in the context of ecological studies, resources management or conservation planning. Although techniques to build such maps are increasingly sophisticated, manual techniques are still largely used. Automated approaches are needed to get reproducible maps in a reasonable time. This work provides statistical learning approaches based framework to build automatically geomorphological maps. We used bathymetric data to build Digital Bathymetric Model (DBM) and compute terrain attributes characteristic of seafloor geomorphology. Then, we used clustering based algorithms to select automatically ground truth locations from a reference geomorphological map manually made. Finally a supervised classification model random forest based was used to build predictive models for seafloor geomorphology typologies. Subsequently we studied the effect of DBM resolution, sample size and sampling method of the ground truth locations, in the quality of map production via a series of simulations. Results showed that the proposed framework allowed to build efficiently relevant seafloor geomorphological maps. The best compromise between the sampling effort and the quality of the resulting maps was obtained with 100 m DBM resolution, 200 data points sample size and using a complexity-dependent sampling method and led to a map matching at 90% the reference one.'
date: 2024-06-20
venue: 'Earth Science Informatics'
paperurl: 'https://doi.org/10.1007/s12145-024-01347-x'
citation: 'Faye, P.A.L., Brunel, E., Claverie, T. et al. Automatic geomorphological mapping using ground truth data with coverage sampling and random forest algorithms. Earth Sci Inform 17, 3715–3732 (2024). https://doi.org/10.1007/s12145-024-01347-x'
---
The ability to autonomously navigate safely, especially within dynamic environments, is paramount for mobile robotics. In recent years, DRL approaches have shown superior performance in dynamic obstacle avoidance. However, these learning-based approaches are often developed in specially designed simulation environments and are hard to test against conventional planning approaches. Furthermore, the integration and deployment of these approaches into real robotic platforms are not yet completely solved. In this paper, we present Arena-bench, a benchmark suite to train, test, and evaluate navigation planners on different robotic platforms within 3D environments. It provides tools to design and generate highly dynamic evaluation worlds, scenarios, and tasks for autonomous navigation and is fully integrated into the robot operating system. To demonstrate the functionalities of our suite, we trained a DRL agent on our platform and compared it against a variety of existing different model-based and learning-based navigation approaches on a variety of relevant metrics. Finally, we deployed the approaches towards real robots and demonstrated the reproducibility of the results. The code is publicly available at [this http URL](https://github.com/ignc-research/arena-bench).

[Download paper here](https://hal.science/hal-04624799/file/Revision_ESI-2.pdf)

Recommended citation: Faye, P.A.L., Brunel, E., Claverie, T. et al. Automatic geomorphological mapping using ground truth data with coverage sampling and random forest algorithms. Earth Sci Inform 17, 3715–3732 (2024). https://doi.org/10.1007/s12145-024-01347-x
